Ethics
	Govern the social infrastructure that udnerlies everything we do.
	An objective framework that can be used to analyze the situations

	An action must have a reason.

	Generalizability: An action is ehical onlu if I can rationally believe that my reasons for the action are conssitent with the assumption that everyone who has the same reasons will perform the action.

	-- if an action is ungeneralizable there is no coherent rational behind it so it is merely a behavior, not an action.

	Utility:
	Utility is an intrinsically valuable state of affairs
		Everyone utility counts equally
		An action is ehical choice if it results more utility for everyone.
		It is possible to calculate the expected utility of actions and then choose the 	best one.

	Utilitarian Principle: 没有替代选择 目前最好的。

	Deontic Utilitarianism: 
		一个行为被判定为到的或者是不道德 基于当事人是否履行了义务
	Consequential Utilitarianism:
		一个行为被判定为到的或者是不道德 基于当事人的行为所造成的的结果，并非是当事人的想法

	Causing versus Allowing: 
		example:Suppose you hear a scream and spot a young child who is clinging to the side of a deep well, about to fall in. Ignoring the child has the same outcome as throwing the child in the well.

	Utilitarianism and Fairness: An unfair situation doesn't justify an unethical act.
		Example:  Suppose you come across an injured hiker on the trail who cannot survive without assistance.  Even if others ignore the hiker it is still unethical for you to ignore her.
		Unless you could reasonably conclude that you would put yourself in equal harm by helping.

	Average versus Total Utility: In some situations it is more rational to maximize the average utility rather than the
	total

	Present versus Future Utility: It is rational to consider utility that will eventually result from an action in addition to the immediate utility.

	Trolley problem: it is a moral dilemma proposed by Philippa Foot in 1967. 
	Two options: kill one person to save other five, or, kill other five to save the on person.

	When the self-driving cat have problem and cannot avoid to harm people, they are programmed to take desicion and action. And It is not only program the car with traffic rules, they also need to know what should they do if situation happens.

	Moral machine expands the trolley problem to different scenarios.

	The professor propose a equation that: Total Utility = Sigma(All individual): Individual Utility * Panelty on the Individual for violencing rule

Joe Bazeley presentation:
	Lightbeam:

	Ghostery:

	Exif metadata:

	Grading changing scandal from 2013: https://miamistudent.net/grade-changing-scandal-results-in-charges/
	Leak of social security numbers:

Search engines:
	At least 1.8 billion websites
	At least 130 trillion web pages

	Web crawling: A spider visits a set of websites according to a defined policy

	Indexing: An index of websites that contain specific words and other token is maintained

	SearchinL A list of websites that contain specific search terms is generated
	And the websites must be ranked.

	 organic (decided by algorithm)and paid(decided by algorithm but interferred with paid fee to get better rank) ranking, 

	Page rank: Developed by Larry Page and Sergey Brin, and sstill be used by Google
	A webpage is important if it is pointed to by other important page.

	SEO: search Engine Optimization, white hat, Black hat, panalty from Search provider apply to excessive case of search optimizing.

Data privacy:
	Protection of personal data when using the Internet
	Personally identifiable information (PII) Sensitive personal information(SPI)
	Name, SSN, Passport number, date, time, place of birth, etc.

	Anoynymous information: search keyword, IP address, and time related to them. each single one can't be linked directly but it can be analyzed.

	Data you want to keep private
		Contact information (name, phone, e-mail, address)
		Private/family information (marital status, spouse’s name, parents’ names, age, information about children, etc.)
		Location information.  In principle this is private by default, but do you trust that it really is?
		Healthcare records information
		Criminal records
		Financial information
		Purchase information
		Web surfing and other communication logs

		People might want you information: Advertiser, Intelligence agencies, Black hat hackers, people who know me, Others, employers, insurance companies, bank, etc.

	Online Tracking and Behavioral Profileing
	OBA: Online Behaviral advertising
	Online tracking： cons: mass serveillance, price discrimination, content personlaization, slow webpage loading
					pros: Storing customization preferences, Can help fight online fraud
					Less sophisticated users might not be able to find relevant content without some help.
					Web analytics help site owners optimize their ad campaigns
					Can stop certain kinds of attacks against websites


Pet cloneing:
	Is it ethical to clone pets when there are so many animals available in shelters?
	
	Is there an ethical difference between cloning a pet versus cloning an animal for other purposes?
	Research
	Saving endangered species
	
	Cloning is expensive and has a low success rate.
	
	Is pet cloning generalizable? What about utility?
	
	Even though clones are genetically identical (or almost), they can have a different phenotype (the way that genes are expressed in traits).

Behaviral Biometrics:

	The manner you interact with technology (e.g. pressure, angle, typing patterns, etc.).  More subtle than “physical” biometrics.
	
	Does this make it more secure?
	
	Changes in your behavioral biometrics, e.g. a hand tremor, can be used to provide alerts:
	
	To you, to indicate a possible medical issue
	
	To your health insurer to possibly raise your rates because of a new condition
	
	Can reduce the need for PINs or passwords and help catch fraud or identity theft.
	Department of Defense is working to replace access cards with behavioral biometrics.


DIY Neurohacking:
	
	Zap your brain with electric or magnetic pulses to improve cognitive function or motor skills.
	
	Spend a few hundred dollars or build it yourself.
	
	How is this different from high-tech equipment currently used for training or recovery?
	
	Liability issues:  Who is responsible if something goes wrong?
	Some devices are FDA approved, but are intended to be used under a physician’s care.
	
	Is it ethical for e-sports athletes to do this?
	Fails the generalizability test.


Autonomous Translation:

	Provides “good enough” translation when the situation is non-critical.
	
	Humans can pick up on body language, tone, and slang that may confuse a computer.
	
	Some languages have grammatical structures that make real-time translation difficult.
	
	Difficulty in picking out language in a noisy environment
	
	Google translate originally used English as an intermediary language.  Now uses deep learning.
	
	Can we trust computer translation when the stakes are high?
	E.g. diplomacy, military, foreign relations, large business deals
	Who is accountable for mis-translations?


Datafication of Children:
	
	Between the ages of 11 and 16, children make an average of 26 posts per day.  70,000 by adulthood.
	
	Parents share information about their children even before they are born.  They do this without getting consent.
	
	But can a legal minor actually give consent?
	
	Can consent be requested in an understandable way?
	
	Smart toys and other IoT devices gather information about children.
	
	Only about 1/5 of Facebook friends are people you actually know in real life.
	Do you trust them with all this information about your children?

Insect Allies:

	Genetically modified bugs are infected with a virus they can pass onto a plant.
	Positives:  Can replace chemical sprays and make changes within a single generation.
	Negatives:  With the wrong virus this could be used as a bioweapon, potentially wiping out much of the world’s food supply.
	Recall the romaine lettuce E. coli. scare of late 2018.  All supplies of lettuce was destroyed even though only a fraction had an issue.
	Would the potential of using this as a weapon open up a new bio-agent arms race?
	How confident are we in the ability to control this in the wild?








